Add JIT examples to CUDA docs (#7918)
numba/numba: docs/source/cuda/examples.rst

vector element:

.. literalinclude:: ../../../numba/cuda/tests/doc_examples/test_vecadd.py
   :language: python
   :caption: from ``test_ex_vecadd`` in ``numba/cuda/tests/doc_examples/test_vecadd.py``
   :start-after: ex_vecadd.launch.begin
   :end-before: ex_vecadd.launch.end
   :dedent: 8
   :linenos:

This also prints:

.. code-block:: none

   [0.73548323 1.32061059 0.12582968 ... 1.25925809 1.49335059 1.59315414]

.. _cuda-laplace:

1D Heat Equation
=====================
This example solves Laplace's equation in one dimension for a certain set of initial
conditions and boundary conditions. A full discussion of Laplace's equation is out of
scope for this documentation, but it will suffice to say that it describes how heat
propagates through an object over time. It works by discretizing the problem in two ways:

1. The domain is partitioned into a mesh of points that each have an individual temperature.
2. Time is partitioned into discrete intervals that are advanced forward sequentially.

Then, the following assumption is applied: The temperature of a point after some interval 
has passed is some weighted average of the temperature of the points that are directly

> touching it. Intuitively, this means if all the points in the domain are very hot

Reviewer: ```suggestion
adjacent to it. Intuitively, if all the points in the domain are very hot
```

> and a single point in the middle is very cold, as time goes on, the hot points will cause

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and a single point in the middle is very cold, as time passes, the hot points will cause
```

the cold one to heat up and the cold point will cause the surrounding hot pieces to cool

> slightly. Simply put, the heat spreads out around the object.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
slightly. Simply put, the heat spreads throughout the object.
```

We can implement this simulation using a Numba kernel. Let's start simple by assuming
we have a one dimensional object which we'll represent with an array of values. The position 

> of the element in the array is like the position of a point within the object, and the value

Reviewer: ```suggestion
of the element in the array is the position of a point within the object, and the value
```

of the element represents the temperature. 

.. literalinclude:: ../../../numba/cuda/tests/doc_examples/test_laplace.py
   :language: python
   :caption: from ``test_ex_laplace`` in ``numba/cuda/tests/doc_examples/test_laplace.py``
   :start-after: ex_laplace.import.begin
   :end-before: ex_laplace.import.end
   :dedent: 8
   :linenos:

Some initial setup here. Let's make one point in the center of the object very hot.

.. literalinclude:: ../../../numba/cuda/tests/doc_examples/test_laplace.py
   :language: python
   :caption: from ``test_ex_laplace`` in ``numba/cuda/tests/doc_examples/test_laplace.py``
   :start-after: ex_laplace.allocate.begin
   :end-before: ex_laplace.allocate.end
   :dedent: 8
   :linenos:

> The initial state of the problem can be visualized with ``matplotlib``:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The initial state of the problem can be visualized as:
```

synchronization and the temporary array used to avoid race conditions. See 
:func:`numba.cuda.cg.this_grid() <numba.cuda.cg.this_grid>` for details.

.. literalinclude:: ../../../numba/cuda/tests/doc_examples/test_laplace.py
   :language: python
   :caption: from ``test_ex_laplace`` in ``numba/cuda/tests/doc_examples/test_laplace.py``
   :start-after: ex_laplace.kernel.begin
   :end-before: ex_laplace.kernel.end
   :dedent: 8
   :linenos:

Calling the kernel:

.. literalinclude:: ../../../numba/cuda/tests/doc_examples/test_laplace.py
   :language: python
   :caption: from ``test_ex_laplace`` in ``numba/cuda/tests/doc_examples/test_laplace.py``
   :start-after: ex_laplace.launch.begin
   :end-before: ex_laplace.launch.end
   :dedent: 8
   :linenos:

Plotting the final data shows an arc that is highest where
the object was hot initially and gradually sloping down to zero towards the
edges where the temperature is fixed at zero. In the limit of infinite time,
the arc will flatten out completely.

.. image:: laplace_final.svg

.. _cuda_reduction_shared:

Shared Memory Reduction
=======================

> Numba exposes many CUDA features including :ref:`shared memory

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Numba exposes many CUDA features, including :ref:`shared memory
```

<cuda-shared-memory>`. To demonstrate shared memory, let's reimplement a
famous CUDA solution for summing a vector which works by "folding" the data up

> using a sucessively smaller number of threads.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
using a successively smaller number of threads.
```

Note that this is a fairly naive implementation, and there are more efficient ways of implementing reductions
using Numba - see :ref:`cuda_montecarlo` for an example.

.. literalinclude:: ../../../numba/cuda/tests/doc_examples/test_reduction.py
   :language: python
   :caption: from ``test_ex_reduction`` in ``numba/cuda/tests/doc_examples/test_reduction.py``
   :start-after: ex_reduction.import.begin
   :end-before: ex_reduction.import.end
   :dedent: 8
   :linenos:

Here is a version of the kernel implemented using Numba:

.. literalinclude:: ../../../numba/cuda/tests/doc_examples/test_reduction.py
   :language: python
   :caption: from ``test_ex_reduction`` in ``numba/cuda/tests/doc_examples/test_reduction.py``
   :start-after: ex_reduction.kernel.begin
   :end-before: ex_reduction.kernel.end
   :dedent: 8
   :linenos:

> This kernel can be run as follows and the same result is obtained through
> summing the host data by traditional means.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We can run kernel and verify that the same result is obtained through
summing data on the host as follows:
```

   :language: python
   :caption: from ``test_ex_cpu_gpu_compat`` in ``numba/cuda/tests/doc_examples/test_cpu_gpu_compat.py``
   :start-after: ex_cpu_gpu_compat.usegpu.begin
   :end-before: ex_cpu_gpu_compat.usegpu.end
   :dedent: 8
   :linenos:

This kernel can be invoked in the normal way:

.. literalinclude:: ../../../numba/cuda/tests/doc_examples/test_cpu_gpu_compat.py
   :language: python
   :caption: from ``test_ex_cpu_gpu_compat`` in ``numba/cuda/tests/doc_examples/test_cpu_gpu_compat.py``
   :start-after: ex_cpu_gpu_compat.launch.begin
   :end-before: ex_cpu_gpu_compat.launch.end
   :dedent: 8
   :linenos:

.. _cuda_montecarlo:

Monte Carlo Integration
=======================

This example shows how to use Numba to approximate the value of a definite integral by rapidly generating 
random numbers on the GPU. A detailed description of the mathematical mechanics of Monte Carlo integeration 
is out of the scope of the example, but it can briefly be described as an averaging process where the area 
under the curve is approximated by taking the average of many rectangles formed by its function values.

> In addition, this example shows how to perform reductions in numba using the :func:`numba.cuda.reduce` API.

Reviewer: The link doesn't work because `reduce` is an alias, I think:

```suggestion
In addition, this example shows how to perform reductions in numba using the 
:func:`cuda.reduce() <numba.cuda.Reduce>` API.
```

synchronization and the temporary array used to avoid race conditions. See 
:func:`numba.cuda.cg.this_grid() <numba.cuda.cg.this_grid>` for details.

.. literalinclude:: ../../../numba/cuda/tests/doc_examples/test_laplace.py
   :language: python
   :caption: from ``test_ex_laplace`` in ``numba/cuda/tests/doc_examples/test_laplace.py``
   :start-after: ex_laplace.kernel.begin
   :end-before: ex_laplace.kernel.end
   :dedent: 8
   :linenos:

Calling the kernel:

.. literalinclude:: ../../../numba/cuda/tests/doc_examples/test_laplace.py
   :language: python
   :caption: from ``test_ex_laplace`` in ``numba/cuda/tests/doc_examples/test_laplace.py``
   :start-after: ex_laplace.launch.begin
   :end-before: ex_laplace.launch.end
   :dedent: 8
   :linenos:

Plotting the final data with a graphing library shows an arc shape highest where
the object was hot initially and gradually sloping down to zero towards the
edges where the temperature is fixed at zero. In the limit of infinite time,
the arc will flatten out completely.

.. image:: laplace_final.svg

.. _cuda_reduction_shared:

Shared Memory Reduction
=======================

> Numba exposes many CUDA features including shared memory. Shared memory is high speed on chip memory
> that represents a shared address space that all the threads in a block can see. It is local to each
> block and is limited in size, but extremely quick to access, similar to a cache. More can be read 
> about shared memory in the CUDA documentation. As a way of demonstrating shared memory, let's reimplement 
> a famous CUDA solution for summing a vector which works by "folding" the data up using a sucessively
> smaller number of threads.

Reviewer: I think we can skip explaining shared memory here, and link to the section documenting it:
```suggestion
Numba exposes many CUDA features including :ref:`shared memory
<cuda-shared-memory>`. To demonstrate shared memory, let's reimplement a
famous CUDA solution for summing a vector which works by "folding" the data up
using a sucessively smaller number of threads.

```

> Note that this is a fairly naive implementation and more efficient ways of summing an array exist
> within numba. See :ref:`cuda_montecarlo` for an example.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that this is a fairly naive implementation, and there are more efficient ways of implementing reductions
using Numba - see :ref:`cuda_montecarlo` for an example.
```

.. literalinclude:: ../../../numba/cuda/tests/doc_examples/test_reduction.py
   :language: python
   :caption: from ``test_ex_reduction`` in ``numba/cuda/tests/doc_examples/test_reduction.py``
   :start-after: ex_reduction.import.begin
   :end-before: ex_reduction.import.end
   :dedent: 8
   :linenos:

Here is a version of the kernel implemented using Numba:

.. literalinclude:: ../../../numba/cuda/tests/doc_examples/test_reduction.py
   :language: python
   :caption: from ``test_ex_reduction`` in ``numba/cuda/tests/doc_examples/test_reduction.py``
   :start-after: ex_reduction.kernel.begin
   :end-before: ex_reduction.kernel.end
   :dedent: 8
   :linenos:

This kernel can be run as follows and the same result is obtained through
summing the host data by traditional means.

.. literalinclude:: ../../../numba/cuda/tests/doc_examples/test_reduction.py
   :language: python
   :caption: from ``test_ex_reduction`` in ``numba/cuda/tests/doc_examples/test_reduction.py``
   :start-after: ex_reduction.launch.begin
   :end-before: ex_reduction.launch.end
   :dedent: 8
   :linenos:

This algorithm can be greatly improved upon by redesigning the inner loop

> to use sequential memory accesses, or even furthermore using strategies that

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to use sequential memory accesses, and even further by using strategies that
```

> keep more threads active and working since in this example most threads quickly

Reviewer: ```suggestion
keep more threads active and working, since in this example most threads quickly
```

become idle.

.. _cuda_sessionization:

Dividing Click Data into Sessions
=================================

A common problem in business analytics is that of grouping the activity of users of an online platform into
sessions, called "sessionization". The idea is that users generally traverse through a website and perform

> various actions (clicking something, filling out a form, etc) in discrete groups. Perhaps a customer spends

Reviewer: ```suggestion
various actions (clicking something, filling out a form, etc.) in discrete groups. Perhaps a customer spends
```

some time shopping for an item in the morning and then again at night - often the business is interested in
treating these periods as separate interactions with their service, and this creates the problem of 

> programmatically splitting up activity in some agreed upon way.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
programmatically splitting up activity in some agreed-upon way.
```

> Here we'll illustrate how to write a group of numba kernels to solve this problem. We'll start with data 

Reviewer: I only see one kernel:
```suggestion
Here we'll illustrate how to write a Numba kernel to solve this problem. We'll start with data 
```

> containing two fields: let user_id represent a unique ID corresponding to an individual customer, and let 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
containing two fields: let ``user_id`` represent a unique ID corresponding to an individual customer, and let 
```

> action_time be a time that some unknown action was taken on the service. Right now, we'll assume there's 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
``action_time`` be a time that some unknown action was taken on the service. Right now, we'll assume there's 
```

only one type of action, so all there is to know is when it happened.

> Our goal will be to create a new column called session_id which contains a label corresponding to a unique 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Our goal will be to create a new column called ``session_id``, which contains a label corresponding to a unique 
```

session. We'll define the boundary between sessions as when there has been at least one hour between clicks.

.. literalinclude:: ../../../numba/cuda/tests/doc_examples/test_sessionize.py
   :language: python
   :caption: from ``test_ex_sessionize`` in ``numba/cuda/tests/doc_examples/test_sessionize.py``
   :start-after: ex_sessionize.import.begin
   :end-before: ex_sessionize.import.end
   :dedent: 8
   :linenos:
   
Here is a solution using Numba:

.. literalinclude:: ../../../numba/cuda/tests/doc_examples/test_sessionize.py
   :language: python
   :caption: from ``test_ex_sessionize`` in ``numba/cuda/tests/doc_examples/test_sessionize.py``
   :start-after: ex_sessionize.kernel.begin
   :end-before: ex_sessionize.kernel.end
   :dedent: 8
   :linenos:

> Let's generate some data and try out the kernel.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's generate some data and try out the kernel:
```

.. literalinclude:: ../../../numba/cuda/tests/doc_examples/test_sessionize.py
   :language: python
   :caption: from ``test_ex_sessionize`` in ``numba/cuda/tests/doc_examples/test_sessionize.py``
   :start-after: ex_sessionize.allocate.begin
   :end-before: ex_sessionize.allocate.end
   :dedent: 8
   :linenos:

As can be seen above, the kernel successfully divided the first three datapoints from the second three for the first user ID,

> and a similar pattern is seen througout. This example has wide applicability in a business setting and can be used to study

Reviewer: The sentence beginning "This example has..." seems out-of-place here and partially re-states the introduction to the problem - can we either somehow move what it says into the first paragraph, or just remove it?

.. literalinclude:: ../../../numba/cuda/tests/doc_examples/test_cpu_gpu_compat.py
   :language: python
   :caption: from ``test_ex_cpu_gpu_compat`` in ``numba/cuda/tests/doc_examples/test_cpu_gpu_compat.py``
   :start-after: ex_cpu_gpu_compat.allocate.begin
   :end-before: ex_cpu_gpu_compat.allocate.end
   :dedent: 8
   :linenos:

And a numba kernel referencing the decorated function:

.. literalinclude:: ../../../numba/cuda/tests/doc_examples/test_cpu_gpu_compat.py
   :language: python
   :caption: from ``test_ex_cpu_gpu_compat`` in ``numba/cuda/tests/doc_examples/test_cpu_gpu_compat.py``
   :start-after: ex_cpu_gpu_compat.usegpu.begin
   :end-before: ex_cpu_gpu_compat.usegpu.end
   :dedent: 8
   :linenos:

This kernel can be invoked in the normal way:

.. literalinclude:: ../../../numba/cuda/tests/doc_examples/test_cpu_gpu_compat.py
   :language: python
   :caption: from ``test_ex_cpu_gpu_compat`` in ``numba/cuda/tests/doc_examples/test_cpu_gpu_compat.py``
   :start-after: ex_cpu_gpu_compat.launch.begin
   :end-before: ex_cpu_gpu_compat.launch.end
   :dedent: 8
   :linenos:

.. _cuda_montecarlo:

Monte Carlo Integration
=======================

> This example shows how to use numba to approximate the value of a definite integral by rapidly generating 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example shows how to use Numba to approximate the value of a definite integral by rapidly generating 
```

> random numbers on the GPU. A detailed description of the mathematical mechanics of monte carlo integeration 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
random numbers on the GPU. A detailed description of the mathematical mechanics of Monte Carlo integeration 
```

is out of the scope of the example, but it can briefly be described as an averaging process where the area 
under the curve is approximated by taking the average of many rectangles formed by its function values.

> In addition this example shows how to perform reductions in numba using the :func:`numba.cuda.reduce` API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In addition, this example shows how to perform reductions in numba using the :func:`numba.cuda.reduce` API.
```

Reviewer: (Note that the link to the reduction docs isn't working here either)

we have a one dimensional object which we'll represent with an array of values. The position 
of the element in the array is the position of a point within the object, and the value
of the element represents the temperature. 

.. literalinclude:: ../../../numba/cuda/tests/doc_examples/test_laplace.py
   :language: python
   :caption: from ``test_ex_laplace`` in ``numba/cuda/tests/doc_examples/test_laplace.py``
   :start-after: ex_laplace.import.begin
   :end-before: ex_laplace.import.end
   :dedent: 8
   :linenos:

Some initial setup here. Let's make one point in the center of the object very hot.

.. literalinclude:: ../../../numba/cuda/tests/doc_examples/test_laplace.py
   :language: python
   :caption: from ``test_ex_laplace`` in ``numba/cuda/tests/doc_examples/test_laplace.py``
   :start-after: ex_laplace.allocate.begin
   :end-before: ex_laplace.allocate.end
   :dedent: 8
   :linenos:

The initial state of the problem can be visualized as:

.. image:: laplace_initial.svg

In our kernel each thread will be responsible for managing the temperature update for a single element
in a loop over the desired number of timesteps. The kernel is below. Note the use of cooperative group

> synchronization and the temporary array used to avoid race conditions. See 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
synchronization and the use of two buffers swapped at each iteration to avoid race conditions. See 
```

.. code-block:: python

   size = 100
   data = np.zeros(size)

   # make one piece in the very middle very hot
   data[int(size/2)] = 10000
   data_gpu = cuda.to_device(data)

In our kernel each thread will be responsible for managing the temperature update for a single element
in a loop over the desired number of timesteps. The kernel is below:

.. code-block:: python

   @cuda.jit
   def solve_heat_equation(data, size, timesteps, k):
      i = cuda.grid(1)

      for step in range(timesteps):
         # get the current temperature associated with this segment
         curr_temp = data[i]
         
         # apply formula from finite difference equation
         if i == 0:
               # Left wall is held at T = 0
               next_temp = curr_temp + k * (data[i + 1] - (2 * curr_temp))
         elif i == size - 1:
               # Right wall is held at T = 0
               next_temp = curr_temp + k * (data[i - 1] - (2 * curr_temp))
         else:
               next_temp = curr_temp + k * (data[i - 1] - (2 * curr_temp) + data[i + 1])
         data[i] = next_temp
         
         # wait for every thread to write before moving on

>          cuda.syncthreads()

Reviewer: How does syncing at the block level have any meaningful effect here?

It feels like this example needs two copies of the domain along with a cooperative grid sync, or one kernel launch per timestep in order to ensure that all inputs are taken from the previous timestep and not some values coming from the current timestep at the boundaries between blocks.

Am I misunderstanding the operation of the example?

>          cuda.syncthreads()

Reviewer: How does syncing at the block level have any meaningful effect here?

It feels like this example needs two copies of the domain along with a cooperative grid sync, or one kernel launch per timestep in order to ensure that all inputs are taken from the previous timestep and not some values coming from the current timestep at the boundaries between blocks.

Am I misunderstanding the operation of the example?

Author: Yeah, this example was one that I remembered from academia. I think I derived this from some memory of a pure c++ example which used a grid wide barrier. This will be updated.

Calling the kernel:

.. code-block:: python

   solve_heat_equation.forall(len(data))(data_gpu, len(data_gpu), 10000, 0.25)

Since the kernel reused the original data vector to work on the problem, copying it back
to the host yields the results:

.. code-block:: python

>    print(data_gpu.copy_to_host())

Reviewer: It might be nice to include before and after plots generated with something like:

```python
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt

plt.plot(np.arange(len(data)), data_gpu.copy_to_host())
plt.title('Heat in a bar')
plt.xlabel('Position')
plt.ylabel('Temperature')
plt.show()
```

to give something like:

![temp](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/535640/161045589-8c9c2081-7add-4541-a195-ce8ec4e34f8e.png)

Author: I really wanted to include some plots here but didn't see any precedent for that elsewhere in the docs. Happy to add them in though.

>    print(data_gpu.copy_to_host())

Reviewer: It might be nice to include before and after plots generated with something like:

```python
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt

plt.plot(np.arange(len(data)), data_gpu.copy_to_host())
plt.title('Heat in a bar')
plt.xlabel('Position')
plt.ylabel('Temperature')
plt.show()
```

to give something like:

![temp](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/535640/161045589-8c9c2081-7add-4541-a195-ce8ec4e34f8e.png)

         16.81418871, 16.9664262 , 17.10221779, 17.22143367, 17.32395972,
         17.40969746, 17.47856409, 17.53049271, 17.56543251, 17.58334895,
         17.58422393, 17.56805586, 17.53485974, 17.48466713, 17.41752618,
         17.33350153, 17.23267429, 17.1151419 , 16.98101808, 16.83043268,
         16.66353154, 16.48047636, 16.2814445 , 16.06662887, 15.83623766,
         15.5904942 , 15.32963669, 15.053918  , 14.76360541, 14.45898035,
         14.14033813, 13.80798763, 13.46225106, 13.10346357, 12.73197298,
         12.34813942, 11.95233499, 11.5449434 , 11.12635958, 10.69698932,
         10.25724886,  9.80756451,  9.3483722 ,  8.8801171 ,  8.40325314,
         7.91824262,  7.42555573,  6.9256701 ,  6.41907034,  5.90624758,
         5.38769897,  4.86392722,  4.33544009,  3.80274994,  3.26637319,
         2.72682981,  2.18464289,  1.64033805,  1.09444297,  0.54748687])

Plotting this data with a graphing library shows an arc shape highest where
the object was hot initially and gradually sloping down to zero towards the
edges where the temperature is fixed at zero. In the limit of infinite time,
the arc will flatten out completely.

.. _cuda_reduction_shared:

> Shared Memory Reduction

Reviewer: We should probably note that this as an example of how to use shared memory rather than the way in which reductions should actually be implemented using Numba - we could point to the `@cuda.reduce` decorator (https://numba.readthedocs.io/en/stable/cuda/reduction.html) and/or demonstrate its use, as it provides an easier interface for building a reduction and uses a slightly more sophisticated (hopefully more performant) implementation: https://github.com/numba/numba/blob/main/numba/cuda/kernels/reduction.py

Author: I will add a comment here, and I used the `cuda.reduce` technique later on in the monte-carlo example.

some time shopping for an item in the morning and then again at night - often the business is interested in
treating these periods as separate interactions with their service, and this creates the problem of 
programmatically splitting up activity in some agreed upon way.

Here we'll illustrate how to write a group of numba kernels to solve this problem. We'll start with data 
containing two fields: let user_id represent a unique ID corresponding to an individual customer, and let 
action_time be a time that some unknown action was taken on the service. Right now, we'll assume there's 
only one type of action, so all there is to know is when it happened.

Our goal will be to create a new column called session_id which contains a label corresponding to a unique 
session. We'll define the boundary between sessions as when there has been at least one hour between clicks.

.. code-block:: python

   from numba import cuda
   import numpy as np

   # set the timeout to one hour
   session_timeout = np.int64(np.timedelta64('3600', 's'))
   
Here is a solution using Numba:

.. code-block:: python

   @cuda.jit
   def sessionize(

>       user_id, timestamp, results, size

Reviewer: Can we not pass in the `size` and instead use `len(user_id)` in the kernel?

>       user_id, timestamp, results, size

Reviewer: Can we not pass in the `size` and instead use `len(user_id)` in the kernel?

   ):
      gid = cuda.grid(1)
      
      

>       ### DETERMINE SESSION BOUNDARIES
>       is_sess_boundary = 0
>       if 0 < gid < size:
>          if (
>                user_id[gid] != user_id[gid - 1]
>                or timestamp[gid] - timestamp[gid - 1] > session_timeout
>          ):
>                is_sess_boundary = 1
>          else:
>                is_sess_boundary = 0
>       else:
>          is_sess_boundary = 1

Reviewer: Could it be made a little clearer what this is doing by writing it as:

```suggestion
         # Exit early if our gid is beyond the bounds of the data
         if (gid >= len(user_id)):
             return
  
         # Determine whether we're on a session boundary
         different_user = (user_id[gid] != user_id[gid - 1]) 
         time_diff = timestamp[gid] - timestamp[gid - 1]
         timed_out = time_diff > session_timeout
         first_datapoint = (gid == 0)
         is_sess_boundary = different_user or timed_out or first_datapoint
```

i.e. the variable names describe the checks and the condition for being a session boundary "reads" in plain language as opposed to being a more complicated expression.

Also this would allow the next `if` to be removed and the code under it to be moved to the same level as the rest of the function. 

(Note that my indentation in the edited code may not match that in the diff at present - there's some weird 3-space indentation going on in places)

Reviewer: What did you think of this suggestion? I think the original version of the code is in the test file.

         
         
      ### DETERMINE SESSION LABELS
      # this thread marks the start of a session
      if gid < size:
         if is_sess_boundary:
               results[gid] = gid
               look_ahead = 1

               # check elements 'forward' of this one 
               # until a new session boundary is found

>                while results[gid + look_ahead] == 0:

Reviewer: How is it guaranteed that if another session boundary is written by the next thread, it is correctly seen by the current thread?

Author: Ahh, you are right. The reason is these used to be two separate kernels that I fused into one, forgetting that the synchronization that comes from two distinct kernel launches is actually critical. The first used to write the boundaries and the second built out the IDs. Will look into alternatives.

   # array([ 0.,  0.,  0.,  3.,  3.,  3.,  6.,  6.,  6.,  9.,  9., 11., 11.,
   #    13., 13., 13., 13., 17., 18., 19., 20., 21., 21., 23., 24., 24.,
   #    24., 24.])

As can be seen above, the kernel successfully divided the first three datapoints from the second three for the first user ID,
and a similar pattern is seen througout. This example has wide applicability in a business setting and can be used to study
many problems around consumer behavior and product interaction.

.. _cuda_reuse_function:

JIT Function CPU-GPU Compatibility
==================================

This example demonstrates how ``numba.jit`` can be used to jit compile a function for the CPU, while at the same time making 
it available for use inside CUDA kernels. This can be very useful for users that are migrating workflows from CPU to GPU as 
they can directly reuse potential business logic with fewer code changes.

Take the following example function:

.. code-block:: python

   from math import pi

   @numba.jit
   def business_logic(x, y, z):
      return 4 * z * (2 * x - (4 * y) / 2 * pi)

The function ``business_logic`` can be run standalone in compiled form on the CPU:

..code-block:: python

>    print(business_logic(1,2,3)) # -126.79644737231007

Reviewer: I think the 4-space indentation makes this fail to render as code (but it should probably be converted to a tested example and `literalinclude`d anyway)

It can also be directly reused threadwise inside a GPU kernel. For example one may 
generate some vectors to represent ``x``, ``y``, and ``z``:

.. code-block:: python

>    X = cp.array([1, 10, 234])

Reviewer: Although I do love to champion CuPy / Numba interoperability, we should probably keep the Numba examples self-contained and use Numba device arrays here.

   Y = cp.array([2,2,4014])
   Z = cp.array([3,14,2211])

   results = cp.array([0.,0.,0.])

And a numba kernel referencing the decorated function:

.. code-block:: python

   @cuda.jit

>    def f(res, xarr, yarr, zarr, size):

Reviewer: Can we use `len(xarr)` or `len(res)` instead of passing in the size?

      tid = cuda.grid(1)
      
      if tid < size:
         # the function decorated with numba.jit can just be directly reused
         res[tid] = business_logic(xarr[tid], yarr[tid], zarr[tid])

This kernel can be invoked in the normal way:

.. code-block:: python

   f.forall(len(X))(results, X, Y, Z, len(X))
   print(results) # [-126.79644737231007, 416.28324559588634, -218912930.2987788]

.. _cuda_montecarlo:

Monte Carlo Integration
=======================

This example shows how to use numba to approximate the value of a definite integral by rapidly generating 
random numbers on the GPU. A detailed description of the mathematical mechanics of monte carlo integeration 
is out of the scope of the example, but it can briefly be described as an averaging process where the area 
under the curve is approximated by taking the average of many rectangles formed by its function values.

.. code-block:: python

>    nsamps = 1000000 # numer of samples, higher will lead to a more accurate answer

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   nsamps = 1000000 # number of samples, higher will lead to a more accurate answer
```
